1.3.0: 2019-01-24
-----------------

Features Added
``````````````

- Add partial support for the Checks API:

  - Add support for listing check runs via ``check_runs`` and check suites
    via ``check_suites`` methods to ``RepoCommit``, ``MiniCommit`` and
    ``ShortCommit`` classes

  - ``CheckRun.update`` to update the check run

  - ``CheckSuite.check_runs`` to retrieve the check runs for this suite

  - ``CheckRunOutput.annotations`` class to retrieve the annotations for a
    check run

- Add ``unignore`` method to unignore notifications from repository for the
  user, to ``Repository`` and ``ShortRepository`` classes.

- Add ``unsubscribe`` method to unsubscribe the user to repository's
  notifications, to ``Repository`` and ``ShortRepository`` classes.

- Add support for webhooks in an organization by adding:

  - ``OrganizationHook`` class

  - ``create_hook``, ``hook``, and ``hooks`` methods to ``ShortOrganization``
    and ``Organization`` classes

- A ``Project.retrieve_issue_from_content`` method was added to retrieve an
  Issue from the content url.

- A ``Project.retrieve_pull_request_from_content`` method was added to
  retrieve a PullRequest from the content url.

- Add support for Parent/Child teams via the ``hellicat-preview`` API preview
  type.

- Add support for specifying merge commit titles when merging a Pull Request.


Bugs Fixed
``````````

- Stop hard-coding GitHub url that breaks work with a GitHub Enterprise
  instance.

- Set default connect and read timeouts in ``GitHubSession`` to avoid hangs.


.. links
.. _Checks API:
    https://developer.github.com/v3/orgs/checks/

.. _Webhooks API:
    https://developer.github.com/v3/orgs/hooks/
